Gilbert

Note: There is a table of contents for each video at the bottom of this email including timestamps to where various content is located. This should be helpful in navigating the videos.


﻿In this email of Learning Python we are going to cover the following:
 

    Functions (Part1)
    Video link https://vimeo.com/247570174
    Length is 8 minute
     
    Functions (Part2)
    Video link https://vimeo.com/247581011
    Length is 11 minutes
     
    Misc Topics (Part1)
    Video link https://vimeo.com/247582360
    Length is 10 minutes
     
    Misc Topics (Part2)
    Video link https://vimeo.com/247655574
    Length is 8 minutes
     
    Python Debugger (pdb)
    Video link https://vimeo.com/247724017
    Length is 10 minutes




Additional Content:

A Byte of Python, Functions

How to use the Python Debugger
 



Exercises

Reference code for these exercises is posted on GitHub at:
    https://github.com/ktbyers/pynet/tree/master/learning_python/lesson5


1a. Create an ssh_conn function. This function should have three parameters: ip_addr, username, and password. The function should print out each of these three variables and clearly indicate which variable it is printing out.

Call this ssh_conn function using entirely positional arguments.

Call this ssh_conn function using entirely named arguments.

Call this ssh_conn function using a mix of positional and named arguments.


1b. Expand on the ssh_conn function from exercise1 except add a fourth parameter 'device_type' with a default value of 'cisco_ios'. Print all four of the function variables out as part of the function's execution.

Call the 'ssh_conn2' function both with and without specifying the device_type

Create a dictionary that maps to the function's parameters. Call this ssh_conn2 function using the **kwargs technique.


2.  Create a function that randomly generates an IP address for a network. The default base network should be '10.10.10.'. For simplicity the network will always be a /24.

You should be able to pass a different base network into your function as an argument.

Randomly pick a number between 1 and 254 for the last octet and return the full IP address.

You can use the following to randomly generate the last octet:

import random
random.randint(1, 254)


Call your function using no arguments.
Call your function using a positional argument.
Call your function using a named argument.

For each function call print the returned IP address to the screen.


3. Similar to lesson3, exercise4 write a function that normalizes a MAC address to the following format:

01:23:45:67:89:AB

This function should handle the lower-case to upper-case conversion.

It should also handle converting from '0000.aaaa.bbbb' and from '00-00-aa-aa-bb-bb' formats.

The function should have one parameter, the mac_address. It should return the normalized MAC address

Single digit bytes should be zero-padded to two digits. In other words, this:

a:b:c:d:e:f

should be converted to:

0A:0B:0C:0D:0E:0F

Write several test cases for your function and verify it is working properly.


4. Copy your solution from exercise3 to exercise4. Add an 'import pdb' and pdb.set_trace() statement outside of your function (i.e. where you have your function calls).

Inside of pdb, experiment with:

    Listing your code.
    Using 'next' and 'step' to walk through your code. Make sure you understand the difference between next and step.
    Experiment with 'up' and 'down' to move up and down the code stack.
    Use p <variable> to inspect a variable.
    Set a breakpoint and run your code to the breakpoint.
    Use '!command' to change a variable (for example !new_mac = [])





CLASS OUTLINE


1. Functions (Part1) (VIDEO1)
   A. How to define   [0:04]
   B. How to call   [0:35]
   C. Return values   [1:41]
   D. Adding positional arguments   [3:21]
   E. Adding named arguments   [4:54]
   F. Default values   [7:13]

2. Functions (Part2) (VIDEO2)
   A. Calling with *args   [1:57]
   B. Calling with **kwargs   [3:45]
   C. Passing mutables as function arguments   [4:49]
   D. Variables are local to the function   [7:59]

3. Misc Topics (Part1) (VIDEO3)
   A. Classes   [0:23]
      1. Why you might want to use classes   [0:43]
      2. Syntax for creating a class   [2:16]
   B. Modules   [5:15]
      1. What is a module   [5:38]
      2. Importing a module you have created   [5:54]
      3. Calling your imported function   [6:05]
      4. How Python finds something using sys.path   [6:40]
      5. Two ways to perform imports   [7:10]

4. Misc Topics (Part2) (VIDEO4)
   A. Packages   [0:41]
   B. List comprehensions   [1:55]
   C. Lambda functions   [4:47]

5. Python’s Debugger (PDB) (VIDEO5)
   A. The (Pdb) shell   [0:08]
   B. Listing lines using 'list'   [0:52]
   C. Using 'step (s)' to step through a program   [1:27]
   D. 'args' to look at arguments of a function   [1:56]
   E. 'p' to print variables   [2:01]
   F. 'pp' to pretty print   [2:10]
   G. 'up' to move up the stack   [2:27]
   H. 'down' to move down the stack   [2:56]
   I. execute until the return statement   [3:15]
   J. Executing using 'python -m pdb'   [4:10]
   K. Using 'next (n)'   [5:11]
   L. Difference between step and next   [5:56]
   N. Setting a breakpoint   [6:13]
   O. 'continue' to execute until the breakpoint   [6:24]
   P. Use '!<command>' to execute python code   [6:48]
   Q. Debugging principles   [7:54]
      1. Get information out of your program   [8:08]
      2. Quick feedback loop   [8:15]


 



Kirk Byers
https://pynet.twb-tech.com
